For forty-eight architects, we collected information about architectural work and other employments and honors.
We grouped this data into four categories: member of parliament, knight, military work, and lastly, official architectural.
Official architectural covers all cases of remunerated architectural work, be this private or institutional, including service on committees for public work.
The graph reveals both individuals' trajectories and aggregate trends.
Official architectural is the most populated category, while Edward Lovett Pearce is the only architect to populate all four categories.
No amateur appears in official architectural, but they comprise five of seven MPs, meaning that 41% of amateurs were MPs versus just 3.5% of professional architects.
The two professionals here are Robert Adam, famous for his successful social advancement through architecture, and Pearce, a member of the Irish parliament.
Knighthood was more common as recognition of extraordinary service for professional architects, yet only the amateur Lord Burlington was elected a knight of the
Chivalric Order.
Under military, three are amateurs and two are professionals, Pearce and Stephen Riou, who trained as an architect after a military career.
[Silence]